README.md, before:

Any language, any level of experience, fully extensible. It's time for a tiling window manager
*everyone* can use.

## Installation
AquariWM is currently in development and does not have a public release yet. You can clone the
GitHub repository and build the code locally if you would like to test it and/or contribute.


## Why should I use AquariWM?

### Any language.
AquariWM can be configured with a variety of configuration file formats, and it can be configured
and extended using whatever language you're most comfortable with, making it accessible and usable
by everyone.

### Your computer, your way.
AquariWM recognises that not everyone uses their computer the same way. We offer complete and
official support for a variety of popular features, even when they aren't things we, the
developers, use ourselves.

### Complete documentation and extensive guides.
AquariWM guarantees complete and useful documentation of all features and APIs, in addition to
extensive guides for every release.


## Extensions for AquariWM
All extensions to AquariWM communicate through IPC sockets.

### Layouts
AquariWM has no layouts available at this time.

### API Wrappers
AquariWM has no dedicated APIs available for specific languages at this time. Communication can
still happen directly through the IPC sockets.


## Contributing
Contributions to AquariWM are always appreciated! AquariWM's core is written in Rust and uses
Rust's official style guides. All feature or API contributions to AquariWM **must** be accompanied
by complete documentation. You can learn more in CONTRIBUTING.md. Feel free to ask any questions
you might have in the Discussions tab.

Commit message:

Update README description to reflect AquariWM as modular

README.md, after:

AquariWM is a fully modular window manager, allowing extreme extensibility while accommodating all
users, from newcomers to seasoned experts.

## Installation
AquariWM is currently in development and does not have a public release yet. You can clone the
GitHub repository and build the code locally if you would like to test it and/or contribute.


## Why should I use AquariWM?

### Any language.
AquariWM can be configured with a variety of configuration file formats, and it can be configured
and extended using whatever language you're most comfortable with, making it accessible and usable
by everyone.

### Your computer, your way.
AquariWM recognises that not everyone uses their computer the same way. We offer complete and
official support for a variety of popular features, even when they aren't things we, the
developers, use ourselves.

### Complete documentation and extensive guides.
AquariWM guarantees complete and useful documentation of all features and APIs, in addition to
extensive guides for every release.


## Extensions for AquariWM
All extensions to AquariWM communicate through IPC sockets.

### Layouts
AquariWM has no layouts available at this time.

### API Wrappers
AquariWM has no dedicated APIs available for specific languages at this time. Communication can
still happen directly through the IPC sockets.


## Contributing
Contributions to AquariWM are always appreciated! AquariWM's core is written in Rust and uses
Rust's official style guides. All feature or API contributions to AquariWM **must** be accompanied
by complete documentation. You can learn more in CONTRIBUTING.md. Feel free to ask any questions
you might have in the Discussions tab.
